
1. add basic combat
2. add different weapon types
3. test combat
4. TBD
?. tweak balance

beams: good tracking, low damage, instant hit
    strong vs small ships, missiles and targets at long range
    weak vs heavy armor

missiles: good tracking, high damage, delayed hit, can be shot down by beams
    strong vs everything at close range
    weak vs beams at long range

mass drivers: poor tracking, medium damage, delayed hit
    strong vs big ships at close range, stations at any range
    weak vs small/fast ships and all ships at long range

bombs/mines: no propulsion, stealthy, high damage
    can be used to defend against pursuers or lobbed at big, slow targets

stealth coating: makes a ship harder to detect, allowing ships to get closer before the shooting starts
bigger ships are less stealthy
ships using lots of energy are less stealthy
damaged ships are less stealthy
ships with externally mounted weapons are less stealthy


create ship templates for simplified ship building
templates are readonly, taking in a Ship object and computing its construction cost
should be json serializable

add more features. building ships and stations?
economy?
warfare?

remove commented out shit, break code out into separate files




design decisions:

System is the zone subdivision in the game world. Galaxy may well be the shard subdivision, but maybe that should be Universe. TBD.
Octrees are centered on the star and the root node is big enough to contain all celestial objects for that system. Smaller subdivisions are added as needed when more objects are added to the tree.
One octree for asteroids, one for ships, one for stations? Planets and moons probably don't need to be in an octree. Maybe not even stations.


PROPULSION

fuel consumption: fuel consumption constant * sqrt(distance) * gross vehicle mass * (1 - 0.1 * research level)

maximum movement range per tick: range constant * 10 AU * units of propulsion equipped / gross vehicle mass
the range constant represents roughly the movement range of a default ship measured in AU

* note: at research level 11, fuel consumption is negative. I don't think that's a problem,
        I can probably just leave it as an easter egg for anyone who maxes out propulsion research.


RESEARCH

1 unit of research lab produces 0.001 research points (RP) per tick.
For each power of 10 RP accumulated in a given area of research (starting with 1 RP), a new technological level is unlocked.
Each level of research gives 10% boost to the technology it improves.

weapons: 10% damage
armor: 10% effective hit points (ships and stations)
propulsion: 10% less fuel consumption
manufacturing: 10% factory and refinery output
mining: 10% mining drone output
research: 10% research lab output

weapons
0: green laser
1: red laser
2: yellow laser
3: blue laser
4: white laser
5: infrared laser
6: UV laser
7: x-ray laser
8: gamma beam
9: rainbow beam
10: wave/particle duality beam
11: antiphoton laser

armor
0: steel plating
1: ruggedized components
2: multilayer armor
3: redundant systems
4: advanced alloys
5: repair bots
6: vapor clouds
7: failure analysis
8: nanomaterials
9: survivorship bias
10: self-healing materials
11: force fields



